Sending our Avro schema definition alongside every message introduces
some additional network and storage overhead in our producer and consumer applications.
Not only that, but it introduces additional work on the consumer
and producer to correctly serialize and deserialize from Avro.
Schema Registry is a tool built by confluent and deployed alongside
Apache Kafka that can help reduce some of the overhead involved with using Avro.
Schema Registry is in use in your cluster.
You no longer need to send schemas alongside your payloads to Kafka.
Instead, your Kafka client can be configured to send
the schema to Schema Registry over HTTP instead.
Schema Registry assigns the name schema
a version number and then stores it in a private topic.
Until the schema definition is updated or changes again,
the producer never needs to send a schema to
either Scheme Registry or the Kafka brokers ever again.
When consumers then consume data from this Kafka topic,
the Kafka client library will automatically retrieve
the average schema for the message from Schema Registry.
Schema Registry can pull historical schemas as well.
So all data stored in the Kafka topic can be deserialized by clients.
As soon as the client has retrieved a specific version of a schema,
it does not need to retrieve it from Schema Registry ever again.
Just to emphasize the point when using Schema Registry,
consumers and producers only fetch or produce a schema when they don't already have it.
Once they fetch to schema version,
it's never fetched again.
This can dramatically decrease networking overhead for high throughput applications.
It's worth mentioning that Schema Registry does not support deletes by default.
You can enable us behavior but most Schema Registry brokers don't have this enabled.
I don't recommend using it if you're not already.
In confluent, Kafka Python library using in this course has native support for
Schema Registry as do many client libraries in
Java Go and other popular programming languages.
If for some reason your client library doesn't support Schema Registry natively,
you can still use it by integrating against its HTTP API.
Finally, Schema Registry can be used by any application that wants to
efficiently store and retrieve schema data across multiple versions.
Just to reiterate, Schema Registry isn't specific to Kafka.
It's just that it was built originally for a Kafka use case.
If you'd like to features and functionality of
Schema Registry and it's already available at your company,
you can use it in any application whether or not it's interacting with Kafka.